## IS MUNI Captcha Breaker

A proof-of-concept decoder for the CAPTCHAs used by the Information System of Masaryk University.

### About

On 12 April 2014 the staff of the [Information System of Masaryk University](https://is.muni.cz/) (IS) introduced a new anti-[scraping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_scraping) policy to prevent user-created programs from excessively overloading the IS with automatic requests (students would often use automatic page reloaders to increase their chances of getting a prefered seminar group or exam date during time competitions and leave them running for too long). This new policy involves per-user counters for separate parts of the IS that increase with each web request/operation performed by the user and decrease each minute by a specific amount. If a counter exceeds the limit of one or more counters, all further user's request are redirected to a page where they can reset all counters by decoding a simple CAPTCHA.

This project demonstrates the weakness of this type of CAPTCHA by providing a simple utility written in Python (using the `numpy` and `scikit-image` libraries) that is able to automatically recognize the symbols on the CAPTCHA.

**DISCLAIMER:** While I do use certain automated tools myself, I do not intend to and do not need to circumvent the imposed limits by means of automated CAPTCHA decoding. I respect the new anti-scraping policy and I think it leaves sufficient capacity for responsibly written tools designed for legitimate purposes, such as gaining advantage in seminar group enrollment. I wrote this software merely for fun and to show how easy it is to crack this kind of CAPTCHA.

### CAPTCHA analysis

The CAPTCHAs can be generated by refreshing [this link](https://is.muni.cz/system/vstkod.pl) (it is conveniently accessible without authentication :) ). Each CAPTCHA is a 6-bit grayscale image 20 pixels high and about 100 pixels wide. Background is completely white (`#ffffff`) covered with glyphs and noise both of (relatively) random non-white color for each pixel. Glyphs are 17 pixels high with different widths for different glyphs. There seem to be only 23 different glyphs used, corresponding to characters "3467ABDEHIJKLMNPRTUVWXY". Noise is randomly distributed, forming mostly one-pixel, rarely larger, clusters.

### Usage

First, you need to generate patterns for different glyphs from random selection of CAPTCHA samples (50-100 samples should be enough). These must be placed in a directory on the filesystem. There is a pre-generated set of glyph patterns included in the repository (the `glyphs` directory).

```bash
# Download the samples:
mkdir ./samples
for (( i = 0; i < 100; i++ )); do
    wget -O`printf './samples/%06d.gif' $i` https://is.muni.cz/system/vstkod.pl
    sleep 0.5s
done
```

```
$ python captcha_breaker.py -d ./glyphs categorize ./samples
Categorizing '000000.gif'... OK!
Categorizing '000001.gif'... OK!
Categorizing '000002.gif'... OK!
Categorizing '000003.gif'... OK!
...
```

Then you need to assign corresponding names (characters) to the glyphs. The `rename` subcommand will display each glyph and ask you to set the new name. Some glyphs may appear multiple times - just give them the same names and duplicities will be removed automatically. If you enter an empty name, the glyph will be removed. You can also rename glyphs manually by renaming the subdirectories in the glyph data directory (`./glyphs` in our example) - see the `pattern_image.png` file in each subdirectory.

```
$ python captcha_breaker.py -d ./glyphs rename
Enter new name for {__unnamed_0}: A
Enter new name for {__unnamed_1}: 
Deleting glyph pattern...
Enter new name for {__unnamed_2}: B
...
```

Now you can run the `recognize` subcommand to decode a captcha:

```
$ python captcha_breaker.py -d ./glyphs recognize --show https://is.muni.cz/system/vstkod.pl
ABCDEF
```

The `--show` flag tells the program to display the image that it is decoding.

### How it works

**TODO**